[IMP] crm: update convert leads (#5977)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/crm/acquire_leads/convert.rst

before a potential opportunity is assigned to a sales person.

Configuration
=============

To activate the *leads* setting, navigate to :menuselection:`CRM app --> Configuration -->
Settings`, and check the box labeled, :guilabel:`Leads`. Then, click :guilabel:`Save`.

.. image:: convert/convert-leads-leads-setting.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Leads setting on CRM configuration page.

Activating this feature adds a new menu, :guilabel:`Leads`, to the header menu bar at the top of the
screen.

.. image:: convert/convert-leads-leads-menu.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Leads menu on CRM application.

Once the *leads* setting has been activated, it applies to all sales teams by default. To turn off
leads for a specific team, navigate to :menuselection:`CRM app --> Configuration --> Sales Team`.
Then, select a team from the list to open the record, and uncheck the :guilabel:`Leads` box. Once
done, click :guilabel:`Save`.

.. image:: convert/convert-leads-leads-button.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Leads menu on CRM application.

Convert a lead into an opportunity
==================================

> To convert a lead into an *opportunity*, navigate to :menuselection:`CRM --> Leads` and click on a
> :guilabel:`Lead` from the list to open it. In the upper-left corner of the screen, click the
> :guilabel:`Convert to Opportunity` button, which opens a pop-up window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To convert a lead into an *opportunity*, navigate to :menuselection:`CRM --> Leads`, and click on a
:guilabel:`Lead` from the list to open it.

In the upper-left corner of the screen, click the :guilabel:`Convert to Opportunity` button, which
opens a :guilabel:`Convert to opportunity` pop-up window.
```

.. image:: convert/convert-leads-convert-opp-button.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Create opportunity button on a lead record.

In the :guilabel:`Conversion action` field, select :guilabel:`Convert to opportunity`.

.. note::

>    If a lead or an opportunity already exists in the database with this customer, Odoo will
>    automatically suggest to merge with that lead/opportunity. For more information on merging leads
>    and opportunities, :ref:`Merge leads <sales/crm/acquire_leads/merge-leads>` below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If a lead, or an opportunity, already exists in the database with this customer, Odoo
   automatically suggests to merge with that lead/opportunity. For more information on merging leads
   and opportunities, :ref:`Merge leads <sales/crm/acquire_leads/merge-leads>` below.
```

Select a :guilabel:`Salesperson` and a :guilabel:`Sales Team` to assign the opportunity to. If the
lead has already been assigned to a sales person or a team, these fields will automatically populate
with that information.

.. image:: convert/convert-leads-conversion-action.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Create opportunity pop-up.

Under the :guilabel:`Customer` heading, choose from the following options:

- :guilabel:`Create a new customer`: Choose this option to use the information in the lead to create
  a new customer.
- :guilabel:`Link to an existing customer`: Choose this option, then select a customer from the

>   resulting drop-down menu to link this opportunity to the existing customer record.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  resulting drop-down menu, to link this opportunity to the existing customer record.
```

- :guilabel:`Do not link to a customer`: Choose this option to convert the lead, but not link it to
  a new or existing customer.

> Click :guilabel:`Create Opportunity`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly, when all configurations are complete, click :guilabel:`Create Opportunity`.
```

.. _sales/crm/acquire_leads/merge-leads:

Merge leads and opportunities
=============================

Odoo automatically detects similar leads and opportunities by comparing the email addresses of the
contact names. If a similar lead/opportunity is found, a :guilabel:`Similar Lead` smart button is
added to the top of the lead/opportunity record.

.. image:: convert/convert-leads-similar-leads.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Similar leads smart button.

To compare the details of the similar leads/opportunities, click the :guilabel:`Similar Leads`

> button. This will open a kanban view with only the similar leads/opportunities. Click into each card
> to view the details for each lead/opportunity and confirm if they should be merged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
button. This opens a kanban view with only the similar leads/opportunities. Click into each card
to view the details for each lead/opportunity, and confirm if they should be merged.
```

.. important::
   When merging, Odoo gives priority to whichever lead/opportunity was created in the system first,

>    merging the information into the first created lead/opportunity. However, if a lead and an
>    opportunity are being merged, the resulting record will be an opportunity, regardless of which
>    record was created first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   merging the information into the first created lead/opportunity. However, if a lead and an
   opportunity are being merged, the resulting record is referred to as an opportunity, regardless
   of which record was created first.
```

Convert leads into opportunities
================================

*Leads* act as qualifying steps before an opportunity is created. This provides additional time
before a potential opportunity is assigned to a sales person.

Configuration
=============

To activate the *Leads* setting, navigate to :menuselection:`CRM app --> Configuration --> Settings`
and check the box labeled, :guilabel:`Leads`. Then, click :guilabel:`Save`.

> .. image:: convert/convert-leads-leads-setting.png
>     :align: center
>     :alt: Leads setting on CRM configuration page.

Reviewer 2: Image alignment - the :align: and :alt: attributes need to be inline with the "i" in image 🙂
```suggestion
.. image:: convert/convert-leads-leads-setting.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Leads setting on CRM configuration page.
```

Activating this feature adds a new menu, :guilabel:`Leads`, to the header menu bar at the top of the
screen.

> .. image:: convert/convert-leads-leads-menu.png
>     :align: center
>     :alt: Leads menu on CRM application.

Reviewer 2: Scoot the attributes back a space 
```suggestion
.. image:: convert/convert-leads-leads-menu.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Leads menu on CRM application.
```

Once the *Leads* setting has been activated, it applies to all sales teams by default. To turn off
leads for a specific team, navigate to :menuselection:`CRM app --> Configuration --> Sales Teams`.
Then, select a team from the list to open the record, and uncheck the :guilabel:`Leads` box. Once
done, click :guilabel:`Save`.

> .. image:: convert/convert-leads-leads-button.png
>     :align: center
>     :alt: Leads menu on CRM application.

Reviewer 2: Scoot the attributes back a space 
```suggestion
.. image:: convert/convert-leads-leads-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Leads menu on CRM application.
```

Convert a lead into an opportunity
==================================

To convert a lead into an *opportunity*, navigate to :menuselection:`CRM --> Leads`, and click on a
:guilabel:`Lead` from the list to open it.

In the upper-left corner of the screen, click the :guilabel:`Convert to Opportunity` button, which
opens a :guilabel:`Convert to opportunity` pop-up window.

> .. image:: convert/convert-leads-convert-opp-button.png
>     :align: center
>     :alt: Create opportunity button on a lead record.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. image:: convert/convert-leads-convert-opp-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Create opportunity button on a lead record.
```

On the :guilabel:`Convert to opportunity` pop-up window, in the :guilabel:`Conversion action` field,
select the :guilabel:`Convert to opportunity` option.

.. note::
   If a lead, or an opportunity, already exists in the database for this customer, Odoo
   automatically suggests merging both leads/opportunities. For more information on merging leads
   and opportunities, see the section on how to :ref:`merge leads
   <sales/crm/acquire_leads/merge-leads>` below.

Then, select a :guilabel:`Salesperson` and a :guilabel:`Sales Team` to which the opportunity should
be assigned.

If the lead has already been assigned to a salesperson or a team, these fields automatically
populate with that information.

> .. image:: convert/convert-leads-conversion-action.png
>     :align: center
>     :alt: Create opportunity pop-up.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. image:: convert/convert-leads-conversion-action.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Create opportunity pop-up.
```

Under the :guilabel:`Customer` heading, choose from the following options:

- :guilabel:`Create a new customer`: Choose this option to use the information in the lead to create
  a new customer.
- :guilabel:`Link to an existing customer`: Choose this option, then select a customer from the
  resulting drop-down menu, to link this opportunity to the existing customer record.
- :guilabel:`Do not link to a customer`: Choose this option to convert the lead, but not link it to
  a new or existing customer.

Lastly, when all configurations are complete, click :guilabel:`Create Opportunity`.

.. _sales/crm/acquire_leads/merge-leads:

Merge leads and opportunities
=============================

Odoo automatically detects similar leads and opportunities by comparing the email addresses of the
associated contacts. If a similar lead/opportunity is found, a :guilabel:`Similar Lead` smart button
appears at the top of the lead/opportunity record.

> .. image:: convert/convert-leads-similar-leads.png
>     :align: center
>     :alt: Similar leads smart button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. image:: convert/convert-leads-similar-leads.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Similar leads smart button.
```

To compare the details of the similar leads/opportunities, click the :guilabel:`Similar Leads`
button. This opens a kanban view with only the similar leads/opportunities. Click into each card to
view the details for each lead/opportunity, and confirm if they should be merged.

.. important::
   When merging, Odoo gives priority to whichever lead/opportunity was created in the system first,
   merging the information into the first created lead/opportunity. However, if a lead and an
   opportunity are being merged, the resulting record is referred to as an opportunity, regardless
   of which record was created first.

After confirming that the leads/opportunities should be merged, return to the kanban view using
breadcrumbs, or by clicking the :guilabel:`Similar Lead` smart button. Click the :guilabel:`☰
(three vertical lines)` icon to change to list view.

Check the box on the left of the page for the leads/opportunities to be merged. Then, click the
:guilabel:`Action ⚙️ (gear)` icon at the top of the page, to reveal a drop-down menu. From that
drop-down menu, select the :guilabel:`Merge` option to merge the selected opportunities (or leads).

> When :guilabel:`Merge` is selected from the :guilabel:`Action ⚙️` drop-down menu, a

Reviewer 2: Add the icon descriptor for consistency 
```suggestion
When :guilabel:`Merge` is selected from the :guilabel:`Action ⚙️ (gear)` drop-down menu, a
```

:guilabel:`Merge` pop-up window appears. In that pop-up window, decide to :guilabel:`Assign
opportunities to` a :guilabel:`Salesperson` and/or :guilabel:`Sales Team`.

Below those fields, the leads/opportunities to merge are listed, along with their related
information. To merge those selected leads/opportunities, click :guilabel:`Merge`.

.. note::
   When merging opportunities, no information is lost. Data from the other opportunity is logged in
   the chatter, and the information fields, for reference.

> .. image:: convert/convert-leads-merge.png
>     :align: center
>     :alt: Merge option from action menu in list view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. image:: convert/convert-leads-merge.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Merge option from action menu in list view.
```

Convert leads into opportunities
================================

*Leads* act as qualifying steps before an opportunity is created. This provides additional time
before a potential opportunity is assigned to a sales person.

Configuration
=============

To activate the *leads* setting, navigate to :menuselection:`CRM app --> Configuration -->
Settings`, and check the box labeled, :guilabel:`Leads`. Then, click :guilabel:`Save`.

.. image:: convert/convert-leads-leads-setting.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Leads setting on CRM configuration page.

Activating this feature adds a new menu, :guilabel:`Leads`, to the header menu bar at the top of the
screen.

.. image:: convert/convert-leads-leads-menu.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Leads menu on CRM application.

> Once the *leads* setting has been activated, it applies to all sales teams by default. To turn off

Reviewer 3: I would capitalize Leads here since it's the name of the setting. Up to you though.
```suggestion
Once the *Leads* setting has been activated, it applies to all sales teams by default. To turn off
```

leads for a specific team, navigate to :menuselection:`CRM app --> Configuration --> Sales Teams`.
Then, select a team from the list to open the record, and uncheck the :guilabel:`Leads` box. Once
done, click :guilabel:`Save`.

.. image:: convert/convert-leads-leads-button.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Leads menu on CRM application.

Convert a lead into an opportunity
==================================

To convert a lead into an *opportunity*, navigate to :menuselection:`CRM --> Leads`, and click on a
:guilabel:`Lead` from the list to open it.

In the upper-left corner of the screen, click the :guilabel:`Convert to Opportunity` button, which
opens a :guilabel:`Convert to opportunity` pop-up window.

.. image:: convert/convert-leads-convert-opp-button.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Create opportunity button on a lead record.

On the :guilabel:`Convert to opportunity` pop-up window, in the :guilabel:`Conversion action` field,
select the :guilabel:`Convert to opportunity` option.

.. note::

>    If a lead, or an opportunity, already exists in the database with this customer, Odoo
>    automatically suggests to merge with that lead/opportunity. For more information on merging leads

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   If a lead, or an opportunity, already exists in the database for this customer, Odoo
   automatically suggests merging both leads/opportunities. For more information on merging leads
```

>    and opportunities, :ref:`Merge leads <sales/crm/acquire_leads/merge-leads>` below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   and opportunities, see the section on how to :ref:`merge leads <sales/crm/acquire_leads/merge-leads>` below.
```

Then, select a :guilabel:`Salesperson` and a :guilabel:`Sales Team` to which the opportunity should
be assigned.

If the lead has already been assigned to a salesperson or a team, these fields automatically
populate with that information.

.. image:: convert/convert-leads-conversion-action.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Create opportunity pop-up.

Under the :guilabel:`Customer` heading, choose from the following options:

- :guilabel:`Create a new customer`: Choose this option to use the information in the lead to create
  a new customer.
- :guilabel:`Link to an existing customer`: Choose this option, then select a customer from the
  resulting drop-down menu, to link this opportunity to the existing customer record.
- :guilabel:`Do not link to a customer`: Choose this option to convert the lead, but not link it to
  a new or existing customer.

Lastly, when all configurations are complete, click :guilabel:`Create Opportunity`.

.. _sales/crm/acquire_leads/merge-leads:

Merge leads and opportunities
=============================

Odoo automatically detects similar leads and opportunities by comparing the email addresses of the

> contact names. If a similar lead/opportunity is found, a :guilabel:`Similar Lead` smart button is
> added to the top of the lead/opportunity record.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
associated contacts. If a similar lead/opportunity is found, a :guilabel:`Similar Lead` smart button appears at the top of the lead/opportunity record.
```

.. image:: convert/convert-leads-similar-leads.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Similar leads smart button.

To compare the details of the similar leads/opportunities, click the :guilabel:`Similar Leads`
button. This opens a kanban view with only the similar leads/opportunities. Click into each card
to view the details for each lead/opportunity, and confirm if they should be merged.

.. important::
   When merging, Odoo gives priority to whichever lead/opportunity was created in the system first,
   merging the information into the first created lead/opportunity. However, if a lead and an
   opportunity are being merged, the resulting record is referred to as an opportunity, regardless
   of which record was created first.

> Once it's confirmed the leads/opportunities should be merged, return to the kanban view using

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After confirming that the leads/opportunities should be merged, return to the kanban view using
```

> breadcrumbs, or by clicking the smart button. Click the :guilabel:`☰ (three vertical lines)` icon

Reviewer 3: Does the smart button has a name within the UI? It might be good to include it in a guilabel.

to change to list view.

Check the box on the left of the page for the leads/opportunities to be merged. Then, click the
:guilabel:`Action ⚙️ (gear)` icon at the top of the page, to reveal a drop-down menu. From that
drop-down menu, select the :guilabel:`Merge` option to merge the selected opportunities (or leads).

When :guilabel:`Merge` is selected from the :guilabel:`Action ⚙️` drop-down menu, a
:guilabel:`Merge` pop-up window appears. In that pop-up window, decide to :guilabel:`Assign
opportunities to` a :guilabel:`Salesperson` and/or :guilabel:`Sales Team`.

Below those fields, the :guilabel:`Select Leads/Opportunities` to merge, along with their related

> information, can be found.

Reviewer 3: I think this needs to be rephrased. The guilabel doesn't fit into this sentence grammatically.

    :alt: Leads setting on CRM configuration page.

This adds a new menu, :guilabel:`Leads`, to the menu bar at the top of the screen.

.. image:: convert/convert-leads-leads-menu.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Leads menu on CRM application.

Once the *leads* setting has been activated, it will apply to all sales teams by default. To turn
off leads for a specific team, navigate to :menuselection:`Configuration --> Sales Team`. Select a
team from the list to open the record, then uncheck the :guilabel:`Leads` box. Click
:guilabel:`Save`.

   .. image:: convert/convert-leads-leads-button.png
       :align: center
       :alt: Leads menu on CRM application.

Convert a lead into an opportunity
==================================

To convert a lead into an *opportunity*,
When you click on a *Lead* you will have the option to convert it to an opportunity and decide if it
should still be assigned to the same channel/person and if you need to create a new customer.

.. image:: convert/convert-leads-convert-opp-button.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Create opportunity button.

.. image:: convert/convert-leads-conversion-action.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Create opportunity pop-up.

> If you already have an opportunity with that customer Odoo will automatically offer you to merge
> with that opportunity. In the same manner, Odoo will automatically offer you to link to an existing
> customer if that customer already exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::
   If there's already an opportunity with that customer, Odoo automatically offers to merge with
   that opportunity. In the same manner, Odoo automatically offers to link to an existing customer,
   if that customer already exists.
```

Merge leads and opportunities
=============================

> Odoo will also automatically propose to merge opportunities if they have the same email address.
> When merging opportunities, Odoo merges the information into the opportunity which was created
> first, giving priority to the information present on the first opportunity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Odoo also automatically proposes to merge opportunities if they share the same email address, with a
:guilabel:`Similar Lead` smart button, located on the lead form.

When merging opportunities, Odoo merges the information into the first created opportunity, giving
priority to the information present on the first opportunity.
```

Reviewer: It might be nice to further explain what is seen/occurs when that smart button is clicked -- just to flush things out a touch.

.. image:: convert/convert-leads-similar-leads.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Similar leads smart button.

> No information is lost: data from the other opportunity is logged in the chatter and the information
> fields for easy access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. important::
   When merging opportunities, no information is lost. Data from the other opportunity is logged in
   the chatter, and the information fields, for easy access.
```

> Would you find a duplicate yourself, ...you can also merge opportunities or leads even if the system
> doesn't propose it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a duplicate is found, manual merging of opportunities (or leads) can occur, even if the system
doesn't propose it.

```

> Here's how, from the list view. Select the opportunities or leads you want to merge and the action
> button will appear. Then, you can select merge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To manually merge opportunities, select the opportunities (or leads) to merge from the
:guilabel:`Leads` page, by checking the boxes next to the desired opportunities (or leads).

Then, click the :guilabel:`Action ⚙️ (gear)` icon at the top of the page, to reveal a drop-down
menu. From that drop-down menu, select the :guilabel:`Merge` option to merge the selected
opportunities (or leads).

When :guilabel:`Merge` is selected from the :guilabel:`Action ⚙️` drop-down menu, a
:guilabel:`Merge` pop-up window appears. In that pop-up window, decide to :guilabel:`Assign
opportunities to` a :guilabel:`Salesperson` and/or :guilabel:`Sales Team`.

Below those fields, the :guilabel:`Select Leads/Opportunities` to merge, along with their related
information, can be found.

To merge those selected leads/opportunities, click :guilabel:`Merge`.
```
just a bit more detailed of an explanation -- this could also benefit from a screenshot of the Merge pop-up window that appears.
